Update 80f0bf - audio or video avoids automatically playing audio (#1655)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: _rules/audio-or-video-avoids-automatically-playing-audio-80f0bf.md

---
id: 80f0bf

> name: DEPRECATED - '`audio` or `video` avoids automatically playing audio'

Reviewer: Need a `deprecated` field in frontmatter too 😁

- **autoplay**: the element has an `autoplay` [attribute value][] of `true`; and
- **not muted**: the element has a `muted` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **not paused**: the element has a `paused` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **audio duration**: the element has a [media resource][] for which the audio output lasts more than 3 seconds.

## Expectation 1

For each test target, there is at least one [instrument][] in the same [web page][] to pause or stop the audio, or turn the audio volume off independently from the overall system volume control.

## Expectation 2

> The [instrument][] to pause or stop or turn the audio volume off is [visible](#visible), has an [accessible name](#accessible-name) that is not only [whitespace](#whitespace), and is [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [instrument][] to pause or stop or turn the audio volume off is [visible](#visible), [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree), and it has an [accessible name](#accessible-name) that is not only [whitespace](#whitespace).
```
My preference, feel free to ignore.

Reviewer: I actually think this expectation should go away in favour of #1632 (where I somehow seem to have forgotten to remove it 😖 )

- **autoplay**: the element has an `autoplay` [attribute value][] of `true`; and
- **not muted**: the element has a `muted` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **not paused**: the element has a `paused` [attribute value][] of `false`; and

> - **audio duration**: the element has a [media resource][] for which the audio output lasts more than 3 seconds.

Reviewer 3: This seems slightly ambiguous to me. Should we do this based on the duration property?

Author: It does not work based on the duration because the media resource could have a duration longer than 3 seconds, while the audio in the media resource is shorter than 3 seconds. 

What exactly is ambiguous in the current description?

## Expectation

For each test target, there is at least one [instrument][] in the same [web page][] to pause or stop the audio, or turn the audio volume off independently from the overall system volume control.

## Assumptions

This rule assumes that the [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) to control the sound must be located in the same [web page][]. Mechanisms located on other pages can still create accessibility issues for users relying on sound to navigate (e.g. screen readers users) since the autoplaying sound will interfere with their ability to find and activate the mechanism. If a [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) external to the [web page][] is provided, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

This rule assumes that the [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) to control the sound must be visible and accessible in order to be effective and usable by all kinds of users. If the mechanism is hidden to some users, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

> No [user style sheets](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-user) are used and no changes to the [user agent default style sheet](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-ua) are in place, otherwise the test cases might have different outcomes of the ones presented here. 

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't that part go under Test Cases heading to be in line with #1654 ?

#### Passed Example 2

> This `video` element has an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or turn the audio volume off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `video` element has (in its default controls) an [instrument][] to pause it, an [instrument][] to stop it, and an [instrument][] to turn its audio volume off.
```
